MICROSOFT SOFTWA RE LICENSE A GREEMENT
MICROSOFT OFFICE 2013 DESKTOP APPLICA TION SOFTWARE
To determine which one of the two separate sets of license terms below apply to you, check the license
designation. This is printed either on your product key, or might be shown on your Certificate of
Authenticity, or on the download page if you obtained the software online. If your designation is “FPP,”
“Retail” or “PIPC,” then the Retail License Terms below apply to you. If OEM, then the OEM License
Terms below apply to you. If you need help, please go to microsoft.com/office/eula to determine which
license you have.
RETA IL LICENSE TERMS
Thank you for choosing Microsoft Office 2013. This is a license agreement between you and Microsoft
Corporation (or, based on where you live, one of its affiliates) that describes your rights to use the Office
2013 software. For your convenience, we’ve organized this agreement into two parts. The first part
includes introductory terms; the Additional Terms and Limited Warranty follow and contain greater detail.
You should review the entire agreement, including any linked terms, because all of the terms are
important and together create this contract that applies to you. You can review linked terms by pasting
the forward link into your browser window. THE ADDITIONAL TERMS CONTA IN A BINDING
ARBITRA TION CLA USE A ND CLASS ACTION WA IVER. IF YOU LIVE IN THE UNITED STATES,
THESE A FFECT YOUR RIGHTS TO RESOLVE A DISPUTE WITH MICROSOFT, A ND YOU SHOULD
READ THEM CAREFULLY.
BY ACCEPTING THIS A GREEMENT OR USING THE SOFTWA RE, YOU A GREE TO ALL OF THESE
TERMS A ND CONSENT TO THE TRA NSMISSION OF CERTAIN INFORMA TION DURING
ACTIVATION A ND FOR INTERNET-BASED FEA TURES OF THE SOFTWA RE. IF YOU DO NOT
ACCEPT A ND COMPLY WITH THESE TERMS, YOU MAY NOT USE THE SOFTWARE OR
FEA TURES. Instead, you should return it to the retailer or other place where you purchased the
software license, for a refund or credit.
How can I use the software? We do not sell our software or your copy of it – we only license it.
Under our license we grant you the right to install and run that one copy on one computer (the licensed
computer) for use by one person at a time, but only if you comply with all the terms of this agreement.
Our software license is permanently assigned to the licensed computer. Please refer to the Additional
Terms for licenses and conditions that are specific to certain countries, Limited Rights Versions and
Special Editions of the software. The components of the software are licensed as a single unit. You may
not separate or virtualize the components and install them on different computers. The software may
include more than one version, such as 32-bit and 64-bit, and you may install and use only one version at
a time. Except for the permitted use described under “Remote Access” below, this license is for direct
use of the software only through the input mechanisms of the licensed computer, such as a keyboard,
mouse, or touchscreen. It does not give permission for installation of the software on a server or for use
by or through other computers or devices connected to the server over an internal or external network.
The software also is not licensed for commercial hosting. For more information on multiple user scenarios
and virtualization, see the Additional Terms.
How do I obtain a backup copy? You may order or download a backup copy of the software from
microsoft.com/office/backup. You may not distribute the backup copy of the software. You may use it
only to reinstall the software on the licensed computer.
Can I transfer the software to another computer or user? You may not transfer the software to
another computer or user. You may transfer the software directly to a third party only as installed on
the licensed computer, with the Certificate of Authenticity label and this agreement. Before the transfer,
that party must agree that this agreement applies to the transfer and use of the software. You may not
retain any copies.
How does Internet activation work? Activation associates the use of the software with a specific
computer or device. During activation, the software will automatically contact Microsoft or its affiliate to
confirm the license is associated with the licensed computer. This process is called “activation.” Because
activation is meant to identify unauthorized changes to the licensing or activation functions of the
software, and to otherwise prevent unlicensed use of the software, you have no right to use the
software after the time permitted for activation and you may not bypass or circumvent
activation. If you have not entered a product key during the time permitted for activation, most
features of the software will stop running.
Does the software collect my personal information? If you connect your computer to the Internet,
some features of the software may connect to Microsoft or service provider computer systems to send or
receive information. You may not always receive a separate notice when they connect. If you choose to
use any of these features, you agree to send or receive this information when using that feature. Many of
these features can be switched off or you can choose not to use them.
How do we use your information? Microsoft uses the information it collects through the software
features to upgrade or fix the software and otherwise improve our products and services. In certain
circumstances, we also share it with others. For example, we share error reports with relevant hardware
and software vendors, so that they can use the information to improve how their products run with
Microsoft products. You agree that we may use and disclose the information as described in our Privacy
Statement at r.office.microsoft.com/r/rlidOOPrivacyState15HighLight?clid=1033.
What does this agreement apply to? This agreement applies to the software, the media on which
you received the software, and also any Microsoft updates, supplements, and services for the software,
unless other terms come with them.
Are there things I’m not allowed to do with the software? Yes. Because the software is licensed,
not sold, Microsoft reserves all rights (such as rights under intellectual property laws) not expressly
granted in this agreement. In particular, this license does not give you any right to, and you may not: use
or virtualize features of the software separately, publish, copy (other than the permitted backup copy),
rent, lease, or lend the software; transfer the software (except as permitted by this agreement), attempt
to circumvent technical protection measures in the software, reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble
the software, except if the laws where you live permit this even when our agreement does not. In that
case, you may do only what your law allows. When using Internet-based features, you may not use
those features in any way that could interfere with anyone else’s use of them, or to try to gain access to
any service, data, account or network, in an unauthorized manner.
What about upgrading or converting the software? If you install the software covered by this
agreement as an upgrade or conversion to your existing software, then the upgrade or conversion
replaces the original software that you are upgrading or converting from. You do not retain any rights to
the original software after you have upgraded and you may not continue to use it or transfer it in any
way. This agreement governs your rights to use the upgrade software and replaces the agreement for
the software from which you upgraded.
ADDITIONA L TERMS
A. LICENSE RIGHTS A ND MULTI USER SCENA RIOS
1. Computer. In this agreement, “computer” means a hardware system (whether physical or virtual)
with a storage device capable of running the software. A hardware partition or blade is considered to be
a computer.
2. Multiple or Pooled Connections. You may not use hardware or software to multiplex or pool
connections, or otherwise allow multiple users or multiple computers or devices to access or use the
software indirectly through the licensed computer.
3. Use in a Virtualized Environment. If you use virtualization software, including client hyper-v, to create
one or more virtual computers on a single computer hardware system, each virtual computer, and the 
physical computer, is considered a separate computer for purposes of this agreement. This license allows
you to install only one copy of the software for use on one computer, whether that computer is physical
or virtual. If you want to use the software on more than one computer, you must obtain separate copies
of the software and a separate license for each copy. Content protected by digital rights management
technology or other full-volume disk drive encryption technology may be less secure in a virtualized
environment.
4. Remote access: The user that primarily uses the licensed computer is the “primary user.” The
primary user may access and use the software installed on the licensed device remotely from any other
device, as long as the software installed on the licensed device is not being used non-remotely by
another user simultaneously. As an exception, you may allow others to access the software
simultaneously only to provide you with technical support.
B. BINDING ARBITRA TION A ND CLASS ACTION WAIVER
1. Application. This Section B applies to any dispute EXCEPT IT DOES NOT INCLUDE A DISPUTE
RELATING TO THE ENFORCEMENT OR VALIDITY OF YOUR, MICROSOFT’S, OR EITHER OF
OUR LICENSORS’ INTELLECTUA L PROPERTY RIGHTS. Dispute means any dispute, action, or other
controversy between you and Microsoft concerning the software (including its price) or this agreement,
whether in contract, warranty, tort, statute, regulation, ordinance, or any other legal or equitable basis.
“Dispute” will be given the broadest possible meaning allowable under law.
2. Notice of Dispute. In the event of a dispute, you or Microsoft must give the other a Notice of Dispute,
which is a written statement of the name, address and contact information of the party giving it, the facts
giving rise to the dispute, and the relief requested. You must send any Notice of Dispute by U.S. Mail to
Microsoft Corporation, A TTN: LCA ARBITRA TION, One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052-
6399. A form is available at go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=245499. Microsoft will send any
Notice of Dispute to you by U.S. Mail to your address if we have it, or otherwise to your e-mail address.
You and Microsoft will attempt to resolve any dispute through informal negotiation within 60 days from
the date the Notice of Dispute is sent. After 60 days, you or Microsoft may commence arbitration.
3. Small Claims Court. You may also litigate any dispute in small claims court in your county of
residence or King County, Washington, if the dispute meets all requirements to be heard in the small
claims court. You may litigate in small claims court whether or not you negotiated informally first.
4. BINDING ARBITRA TION. IF YOU A ND MICROSOFT DO NOT RESOLVE A NY DISPUTE BY
INFORMAL NEGOTIA TION OR IN SMALL CLA IMS COURT, A NY OTHER EFFORT TO RESOLVE
THE DISPUTE WILL BE CONDUCTED EXCLUSIVELY BY BINDING ARBITRA TION. YOU ARE
GIVING UP THE RIGHT TO LITIGA TE (OR PARTICIPA TE IN AS A PARTY OR CLASS MEMBER)
ALL DISPUTES IN COURT BEFORE A JUDGE OR JURY. Instead, all disputes will be resolved before
a neutral arbitrator, whose decision will be final except for a limited right of appeal under the Federal
Arbitration Act. Any court with jurisdiction over the parties may enforce the arbitrator’s award.
5. CLASS ACTION WA IVER. A NY PROCEEDINGS TO RESOLVE OR LITIGA TE A NY DISPUTE IN
ANY FORUM WILL BE CONDUCTED SOLELY ON A N INDIVIDUAL BASIS. NEITHER YOU NOR
MICROSOFT WILL SEEK TO HAVE A NY DISPUTE HEARD AS A CLASS ACTION, PRIVATE
ATTORNEY GENERA L ACTION, OR IN A NY OTHER PROCEEDING IN WHICH EITHER PARTY
ACTS OR PROPOSES TO ACT IN A REPRESENTA TIVE CAPACITY. NO ARBITRATION OR
PROCEEDING WILL BE COMBINED WITH A NOTHER WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN
CONSENT OF ALL PARTIES TO ALL A FFECTED ARBITRA TIONS OR PROCEEDINGS.
6. Arbitration Procedure, Costs, Fees and Incentives. Any arbitration will be conducted by the American
Arbitration Association (the “AAA”) under its Commercial Arbitration Rules and in many cases its
Supplementary Procedures for Consumer-Related Disputes. For more information, see adr.org or call 1-
800-778-7879. In a dispute involving $75,000 or less, Microsoft will promptly reimburse your filing fees
and pay the AAA’s and arbitrator’s fees. You and Microsoft agree to the terms governing procedures, fees 
and incentives at go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=261245. To commence arbitration, submit the form
available at go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=245497 to the AAA. You agree to commence arbitration only
in your county of residence or in King County, Washington. Microsoft agrees to commence arbitration
only in your county of residence.
7. Claims or Disputes Must be Filed Within One Year. To the extent permitted by law, any claim or
dispute under this agreement to which Section B applies must be filed within one year in small claims
court (Section B.3) or in arbitration (Section B.4). The one-year period begins when the claim or dispute
first could be filed. If such a claim or dispute is not filed within one year, it is permanently barred.
8. Severability. If the class action waiver in Section B.5 is found to be illegal or unenforceable as to all
or some parts of a dispute, then Section B (arbitration) will not apply to those parts. Instead, those parts
will be severed and proceed in a court of law, with the remaining parts proceeding in arbitration. If any
other provision of Section B is found to be illegal or unenforceable, that provision will be severed with the
remainder of Section B remaining in full force and effect.
C. CHOICE OF LAW
The laws of the state or country where you live govern all claims and disputes under this agreement,
including breach of contact claims and claims under state consumer protection laws, unfair competition
laws, implied warranty laws, for unjust enrichment, and in tort. If you acquired the software in any other
country, the laws of that country apply. This agreement describes certain legal rights. You may have
other rights, including consumer rights, under the laws of your state or country. You may also have rights
with respect to the party from whom you acquired the software. This agreement does not change those
other rights if the laws of your state or country do not permit it to do so.
D. ACTIVATION
1. More on How Activation Works. During activation, the software will send information about the
software and your computer to Microsoft. This information includes the version, license version,
language, and product key of the software, the Internet protocol address of the computer, and
information derived from the hardware configuration of the computer. For more information about
activation, see microsoft.com/piracy/activation.mspx. If the licensed computer is connected to the
Internet, the software will automatically connect to Microsoft for activation. You can also activate the
software manually by Internet or telephone. In either case, Internet and telephone service charges may
apply.
2. Re-activation. Some changes to your computer components or the software may require re-activation
of the software.
3. Activation Failure. During online activation, if the licensing or activation functions of the software are
found to be counterfeit or improperly licensed, activation will fail. The software will notify you if the
installed copy of the software is improperly licensed. In addition, you will receive reminders to obtain a
properly licensed copy of the software.
4. Updates and Upgrades. You may only obtain updates or upgrades for the software from Microsoft or
authorized sources. Certain upgrades, support, and other services may be offered only to users of
genuine Microsoft software. To identify genuine Microsoft software, see howtotell.com.
E. INTERNET-BASED FEA TURES; PRIVACY
The following software features use Internet protocols, which send to Microsoft (or its suppliers or service
providers) computer information, such as your Internet protocol address, the type of operating system,
browser and name and version of the software you are using, and the language code of the computer
where you installed the software. Microsoft uses this information to make the Internet-based features
available to you, in accordance with the Office 2013 Privacy Statement, at
r.office.microsoft.com/r/rlidOOPrivacyState15HighLight?clid=1033. Some Internet-based features may be
delivered at a later date via Microsoft’s Update service. 
1. Consent for Internet-Based Services. The software features described below and in the Office 2013
Privacy Statement connect to Microsoft or service provider computer systems over the Internet. In some
cases, you will not receive a separate notice when they connect. In some cases, you may switch off these
features or not use them. For more informa tion about these features, see the Office 2013 Privacy
Statement at r.office.microsoft.com/r/rlidOOPrivacyState15HighLight?clid=1033. BY USING THESE
FEA TURES, YOU CONSENT TO THE TRA NSMISSION OF THIS INFORMATION. Microsoft does not
use the information to identify or contact you.
2. Customer Experience Improvement Program (CEIP). This software uses CEIP. CEIP automatically
sends Microsoft information about your hardware and how you use this software. We do not use this
information to identify or contact you. CEIP will also periodically download a small file to your computer.
This file helps us collect information about problems that you have while using the software. When
available, new help information about the errors might also be automatically downloaded. To learn more
about CEIP, see microsoft.com/products/ceip/EN-US/privacypolicy.mspx.
3. Online Features and Content. Features in the software can retrieve online content from Microsoft and
provide it to you. Certain features may also permit you to search for and access information online.
Examples of these features include clip art, templates, online training, online assistance and help, and
Outlook Weather on the Calendar. If you save a template provided by Office.com, information will be
sent online to Microsoft, such as information that identifies the template, but not any specific document
you have created using the template. This information is used to provide you with content you request
and to improve our services. You may choose not to use these online features and content. See the
Office 2013 Privacy Statement linked at the end of this agreement for more information.
4. Cookies. If you choose to use online features in the software, such as online assistance and help, and
templates, cookies may be set. To learn how to block, control and delete cookies, please read the cookies
section of the Office 2013 Privacy Statement linked at the end of this agreement.
5. Office 2013 on Windows 8. If you are running the software on a Windows 8 computer and you have
enabled the software’s online features and content, signing into Windows 8 with a Microsoft account will
automatically sign you into the software using the same Microsoft account. This allows you to store and
access online files in SkyDrive and enjoy the Office Roaming Service without being asked to reenter your
Microsoft account username and password. For more information about signing into the software with a
Microsoft account and the Office Roaming Service, see the Office 2013 Privacy Statement linked at the
end of this agreement.
6. Digital Certificates. The software uses digital certificates. These digital certificates confirm the identity
of Internet users sending X.509 standard encrypted information. They also can be used to digitally sign
files and macros to verify the integrity and origin of the file contents. The software retrieves certificates
and updates certificate revocation lists using the Internet, when available.
7. Automatic Update. Software with Click-to-Run technology may periodically check with Microsoft for
updates and supplements to the software. If found, these updates and supplements might be
automatically downloaded and installed on your licensed computer.
8. Use of Information. Microsoft may use the computer information, error reports, and malware reports
to improve our software and services. We may also share it with others, such as hardware and software
vendors. They may use the information to improve how their products run with Microsoft software.
9. Misuse of Internet-Based Services. You may not use these services in any way that could harm them
or impair anyone else’s use of them. You may not use the services to try to gain unauthorized access to
any service, data, account or network by any means.
10. Information Rights Management. The software contains a feature that allows you to create content
that cannot be printed, copied or sent to others without your permission. You may need to connect to
Microsoft to use this feature for the first time, and you may need to reconnect to Microsoft periodically to
update this feature. For more information, go to
o15.officeredir.microsoft.com/r/rlidIRMHelp?clid=1033. You may choose not to use this feature.
11. Office Roaming Service. If you choose to sign into the software with your Microsoft account, you
turn on the Office Roaming Service. Turning on the Office Roaming Service sends certain settings
(including your list of Most Recently Used Documents, your custom dictionary, and your visual themes)
online to Microsoft servers, where they are stored and downloaded to your computer the next time you
sign into the service with your Microsoft account. For more information about the Office Roaming
Service, see the Office 2013 Privacy Statement linked at the end of this agreement.
F. PROOF OF LICENSE
1. Genuine proof of license. If you acquired the software in a physical package, your proof of license is
the genuine Microsoft Certificate of Authenticity label with the accompanying genuine product key, and
your proof of purchase. If you acquired and downloaded the software online, your proof of license is the
genuine Microsoft product key or PIN for the software that you received with your purchase, and your
proof of purchase from an authorized electronic supplier of genuine Microsoft software. Proof of purchase
may be subject to verification by your merchant’s records.
2. Upgrade or Conversion License. If you upgrade or convert the software, your proof of license is
 the genuine proof of license for the earlier version of the software you upgraded or converted
from; and
 the genuine proof of license for the later version of the software you upgraded or converted to.
To identify genuine Microsoft software, see howtotell.com.
G. LIMITED RIGHTS VERSIONS
Some versions of the software, like Not for Resale and Academic or University Edition software, are
distributed for limited purposes. You may not sell software marked as “NFR” or “Not for Resale,” and you
must be a Qualified Educational User to use software marked as “University,” “Academic Edition” or “AE”.
If you want to find out more about academic software, or you want to find out if you are a Qualified
Educational User, visit microsoft.com/education or contact the Microsoft affiliate serving your country for
more information. Academic or University software may not be used for commercial, non-profit, or
revenue-generating activities.
H. HOME A ND STUDENT SOFTWARE
“Home and Student” edition software may not be used for commercial, non-profit, or revenue-generating
activities.
I. JAPA N
If you live in Japan or acquired the software while you lived in Japan, we grant you the following rights
under our licenses:
1. “PIPC.” For software marked as “PIPC,” you may install and run one copy of the software on one
licensed computer, but only if you comply with all the terms of this agreement. Our software license is
permanently assigned to the licensed computer.
2. Editions other than PIPC. You may install and run one copy of the software on one licensed
computer (the first licensed computer), but only if you comply with all the terms of this agreement.
Provided that you comply with all the terms of this agreement, you may install another copy of the
software on a second licensed computer for use by the primary user of the first licensed computer. You
may make a single copy of the software for backup purposes, and use that backup copy as described
below. You may transfer the software to another computer that belongs to you. You may also transfer
the software (together with the license) to a computer owned by someone else if a) you are the first
licensed user of the software and b) the new user agrees to the terms of this agreement. To make that
transfer, you must transfer the original media, the Certificate of Authenticity, the product key and the
proof of purchase directly to that other person, without retaining any copies of the software. You may
use the backup copy we allow you to make or the media that the software came on to transfer the 
software. Anytime you transfer the software to a new computer, you must remove the software from the
prior computer. You may not transfer the software to share licenses between computers.
The non-commercial use restrictions for Academic, University or Home and Student Edition software do
not apply to you if you live in Japan or acquired the software while you lived in Japan.
J. MILITARY APPRECIATION SOFTWA RE
You must be a “Qualified Military User” to license software marked as “Military Appreciation” edition. To
be a Qualified Military User, in the United States of America, you must be an authorized patron of the
Armed Services Exchanges in accordance with applicable U.S. Federal statutes and regulations. The
Military Appreciation edition software is not licensed for use in any commercial, non-profit, or revenuegenerating activities.
K. CA NA DIA N FORCES SOFTWA RE
You must be a “CANEX Authorized Patron” to license software marked as “Canadian Forces” edition. To
be a CANEX Authorized Patron, you must be a
 Serving member of the Canadian Forces (CF) or their spouse;
 Member of the Canadian Forces Reserve Force;
 Retired Canadian Forces member or Department of National Defense (DND) civilian employee in
receipt of a DND pension;
 Permanent full-time or part-time Non-Public Fund (NPF) or DND employee or and their spouse;
 CANEX Concessionaire (principals only);
 Qualifying foreign military personnel;
 Retired NPF employee in receipt of an NPF pension;
 Full time employee of Alternative Service Delivery contractors;
 Widow of CF personnel receiving a benefit under the Child Family Services Act, Defence Services
Pension Contribution Act, or the Pension Act or the War Veterans Allowance Act;
 Member of the Canadian Corps of Commissionaires when residing or employed on a Base/Wing;
or
 Member of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.
The Canadian Forces edition software is not licensed for use in any commercial, non-profit, or revenuegenerating activities.
L. HOME USE PROGRAM SOFTWARE
You must be a “Home Use Program User” to use software marked as “Home Use Program.” To be a
Home Use Program User, you must be both:
 an employee of an organization that has a Microsoft Volume License agreement with Software
Assurance, and
 the user of a licensed copy of the software, or a product that includes the software, with active
Software Assurance.
M. ADDITIONA L LICENSING REQUIREMENTS A ND/OR USE RIGHTS
1. Third Party Programs. The software may include third party programs that Microsoft, not the third
party, licenses to you under this agreement. Notices, if any, for the third party program are included for
your information only.
2. Font Components. While the software is running, you may use its fonts to display and print content.
You may temporarily download the fonts to a printer or other output device to print content, and you
may embed fonts in content only as permitted by the embedding restrictions in the fonts.
3. Media Elements. Microsoft grants you a license to copy, distribute, perform and display media
elements (images, clip art, animations, sounds, music, video clips, templates and other forms of content)
included with the software in projects and documents, except that you may not: (i) sell, license or
distribute copies of any media elements by themselves or as a product if the primary value of the product
is the media elements; (ii) grant your customers rights to further license or distribute the media
elements; (iii) license or distribute for commercial purposes media elements that include the
representation of identifiable individuals, governments, logos, trademarks, or emblems or use these types
of images in ways that could imply an endorsement or association with your product, entity or activity; or
(iv) create obscene or scandalous works using the media elements. Other media elements, which are
accessible on Office.com or on other websites through features of the software, are governed by the
terms on those websites.
4. Language Packs and Proofing Tools. If you acquire a language pack, language interface pack or
proofing tool that offers additional language version support for the software, you may use the additional
languages included in that pack or tool. The language packs, language interface packs and proofing tools
are a part of the software and may not be used separately.
5. Trial and Conversion. Some or all of the software may be licensed on a trial basis. Your rights to use
trial software are limited to the trial period. The trial software and length of the trial period are set forth
during the activation process. You may have the option to convert your trial rights to subscription or
perpetual rights. Conversion options will be presented to you at the expiration of your trial period. After
the expiration of any trial period without conversion, most features of the trial software will stop running.
TRIAL SOFTWARE IS LICENSED “AS-IS,” AND YOU BEAR THE RISK OF USING IT. MICROSOFT
GIVES NO EXPRESS WARRANTIES, GUARANTEES OR CONDITIONS. YOU MAY HAVE ADDITIONAL
CONSUMER RIGHTS UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAWS WHICH THIS AGREEMENT CANNOT CHA NGE. TO
THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAWS, MICROSOFT EXCLUDES THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHA NTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
6. Subscription Software. If you licensed the software on a subscription basis, your rights to use the
software are limited to the subscription period. You may have the option to extend your subscription or
convert to a perpetual license. If you extend your subscription, you may continue using the software until
the end of your extended subscription period. See the software activation screens or other accompanying
materials for subscription details. After the expiration of your subscription, most features of the software
will stop running.
N. GEOGRA PHIC A ND EXPORT RESTRICTIONS
If there is a geographic region indicated on your software packaging, then you may activate the software
only in that region. You must also comply with all domestic and international export laws and regulations
that apply to the software, which include restrictions on destinations, end users, and end use. For further
information on geographic and export restrictions, visit go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=141397 and
microsoft.com/exporting.
O. SUPPORT A ND REFUND PROCEDURES
Microsoft provides limited support services for properly licensed software as described at
support.microsoft.com/common/international.aspx.
If you are seeking a refund, and you cannot obtain one where you acquired the software, contact
Microsoft for information about Microsoft’s refund policies. See microsoft.com/worldwide, or in North
America, call (800) MICROSOFT or see microsoft.com/info/nareturns.htm.
P. ENTIRE A GREEMENT
This agreement (together with terms accompanying any software supplements, updates, and services
that are provided by Microsoft and that you use), and the terms contained in web links listed in this
agreement, are the entire agreement for the software and any such supplements, updates, and services
(unless Microsoft provides other terms with such supplements, updates, or services). You can review this
agreement after your software is running by going to the software Help screen and clicking on the
Microsoft Software License Terms link or going to
microsoft.com/about/legal/en/us/intellectualproperty/useterms/default.aspx. You can also review the
terms at any of the links in this agreement by typing the URLs into your browser address bar, and you
agree to do so. You agree that for each service that is governed by this agreement and also specific
terms linked in this agreement, you will read the terms for that service before using the service. You
understand that by using the service, you accept this agreement and the linked terms. There are also
informational links in this agreement. The links containing terms that bind you and us are:
· r.office.microsoft.com/r/rlidOOPrivacyState15HighLight?clid=1033 (Office 2013 Privacy Statement)
· go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=261245 (Arbitration Procedure)
RETA IL LIMITED WARRA NTY
Does Microsoft provide a LIMITED WARRA NTY for the software? Yes, other than for trial
software, which is licensed “as-is” and without express warranties, guarantees and
conditions. Microsoft warrants that properly licensed software will perform substantially as described in
any Microsoft materials that accompany the software. This limited warranty does not cover problems
that you cause, or that arise when you fail to follow our instructions, or that are caused by events beyond
Microsoft’s reasonable control. The limited warranty starts when the first user of your copy of the
software acquires that copy, and lasts for one year. Any supplements, updates, or replacement software
that you may receive from Microsoft during that year are also covered, but only for the remainder of that
one-year period or for 30 days, whichever is longer. Transferring the software will not extend the term of
the limited warranty. Microsoft gives no other express warranties, guarantees, or conditions.
MICROSOFT EXCLUDES ALL IMPLIED WARRA NTIES, INCLUDING THOSE OF
MERCHA NTA BILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, A ND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IF
YOUR LOCAL LAW DOES NOT ALLOW MICROSOFT’S EXCLUSION OF IMPLIED WARRA NTIES,
THEN A NY IMPLIED WARRA NTIES, GUA RA NTEES, OR CONDITIONS LAST ONLY DURING THE
TERM OF THE LIMITED WARRA NTY A ND ARE LIMITED AS MUCH AS YOUR LOCAL LAW
ALLOWS. IF YOUR LOCAL LAW REQUIRES A LONGER LIMITED WARRA NTY TERM, DESPITE
THIS A GREEMENT, THEN THAT LONGER TERM WILL APPLY, BUT YOU CA N RECOVER ONLY
THE REMEDIES THAT ARE DESCRIBED IN THIS A GREEMENT. A section near the end of this
agreement explains how you can make a claim under the limited warranty.
For Australia only: Our goods come with guarantees that cannot be excluded under the
Australian Consumer Law. You are entitled to a replacement or refund for a major failure
and compensation for any other reasonably foreseeable loss or damage. You are also
entitled to have the goods repaired or replaced if the goods fail to be of acceptable quality
and the failure does not amount to a major failure.
What if Microsoft breaches its warranty? If Microsoft breaches its limited warranty, your only
remedy is the repair or replacement of the software. We also have the option to refund to you the price
you paid for the software instead of repairing or replacing it. Prior to refund, you must uninstall the
software and return it to Microsoft with proof of purchase.
What if Microsoft breaches any part of this agreement? IF YOU HAVE A NY BASIS FOR
RECOVERING DAMA GES FROM MICROSOFT, YOU CA N RECOVER ONLY DIRECT DAMA GES UP
TO THE AMOUNT THA T YOU PAID FOR THE SOFTWA RE. YOU MAY NOT RECOVER A NY OTHER
DAMA GES, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIA L, LOST PROFITS, SPECIA L, INDIRECT, OR
INCIDENTA L DAMA GES. The damage exclusions and limitations in this agreement apply even if repair,
replacement or a refund for the software does not fully compensate you for any losses or if Microsoft
knew or should have known about the possibility of the damages. SOME STA TES A ND COUNTRIES
DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITA TION OF INCIDENTA L, CONSEQUENTIAL, OR
OTHER DA MA GES, SO THOSE LIMITA TIONS OR EXCLUSIONS MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU. IF
YOUR LOCAL LAW ALLOWS YOU TO RECOVER OTHER DAMA GES FROM MICROSOFT EVEN
THOUGH WE DO NOT, YOU CA NNOT RECOVER MORE THA N YOU PAID FOR THE SOFTWARE.
WARRA NTY PROCEDURES
You need proof of purchase for service under the limited warranty.
1. United States and Canada. For limited warranty service or information about how to obtain a refund
for software acquired in the United States and Canada, contact Microsoft via telephone at (800)
MICROSOFT; via mail at Microsoft Customer Service and Support, One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA
98052-6399; or visit microsoft.com/info/nareturns.htm.
2. Europe, Middle East and Africa. If you acquired the software in Europe, the Middle East, or Africa,
Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited makes the limited warranty. To make a claim under the limited 
warranty, you must contact either Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited, Customer Care Centre, Atrium
Building Block B, Carmanhall Road, Sandyford Industrial Estate, Dublin 18, Ireland, or the Microsoft
affiliate serving your country (see microsoft.com/worldwide).
3. Australia. If you acquired the software in Australia, contact Microsoft to make a claim at 13 20 58; or
Microsoft Pty Ltd, 1 Epping Road, North Ryde NSW 2113 Australia.
4. Other Countries. If you acquired the software in another country, contact the Microsoft affiliate
serving your country (see microsoft.com/worldwide).
OEM LICENSE TERMS
Thank you for choosing a computer preinstalled with Microsoft Office 2013. This is a license agreement
between you and the computer manufacturer or software installer that distributes the Microsoft Office
2013 software with the computer. This agreement describes your rights to use the Office 2013 software.
For your convenience, we’ve organized this agreement into two parts. The first part includes introductory
terms; the Additional Terms and Limited Warranty follow and contain greater detail. You should review
the entire agreement, including any linked terms, because all of the terms are important and together
create this contract that applies to you. You can review linked terms by pasting the forward link into your
browser window. THE ADDITIONA L TERMS CONTA IN A BINDING ARBITRA TION CLA USE A ND
CLASS ACTION WA IVER. IF YOU LIVE IN THE UNITED STATES, THESE A FFECT YOUR RIGHTS
TO RESOLVE A DISPUTE WITH THE MA NUFA CTURER OR INSTALLER, OR WITH MICROSOFT,
AND YOU SHOULD REA D THEM CAREFULLY.
BY ACCEPTING THIS A GREEMENT OR USING THE SOFTWA RE, YOU A GREE TO ALL OF THESE
TERMS A ND CONSENT TO THE TRA NSMISSION OF CERTAIN INFORMA TION DURING
ACTIVATION A ND FOR INTERNET-BASED FEA TURES OF THE SOFTWA RE. IF YOU DO NOT
ACCEPT A ND COMPLY WITH THESE TERMS, YOU MAY NOT USE THE SOFTWARE OR
FEA TURES. Instead, you may contact the manufacturer or installer to determine its return policy and
return the software or computer for a refund or credit under that policy. You must comply with that
policy, which might require you to return the software with the entire computer on which the software is
installed for a refund or credit.
How can I use the software? The software is licensed, not sold. Under this agreement we grant you
the right to run one copy only on the computer with which you acquired the software (the licensed
computer) for use by one person at a time, but only if you comply with all the terms of this agreement.
Our software license is permanently assigned to the licensed computer. Please refer to the Additional
Terms for licenses and conditions that are specific to certain countries, Limited Rights Versions and
Special Editions of the software. The components of the software are licensed as a single unit. You may
not separate or virtualize the components and install them on different computers. The software may
include more than one version, such as 32-bit and 64-bit, and you may use only one version at a time .
Except for the permitted use described under “Remote Access” below, this license is for direct use of the
software only through the input mechanisms of the licensed computer, such as a keyboard, mouse, or
touchscreen. It does not give permission for installation of the software on a server or for use by or
through other computers or devices connected to the server over an internal or external network. The
software also is not licensed for commercial hosting. For more information on multiple user scenarios and
virtualization, see the Additional Terms.
How do I obtain a backup copy? You may order or download a backup copy of the software from
microsoft.com/office/backup. You may not distribute the backup copy of the software. You may use it
only to reinstall the software on the licensed computer.
Can I transfer the software to another computer or user? You may not transfer the software to
another computer or user. You may transfer the software directly to a third party only as installed on
the licensed computer, with the Certificate of Authenticity label, and this agreement. Before the transfer,
that party must agree that this agreement applies to the transfer and use of the software. You may not
retain any copies.
How does Internet activation work? Activation associates the use of the software with a specific
computer or device. During activation, the software will automatically contact Microsoft or its affiliate to
confirm the license is associated with the licensed computer. This process is called “activation.” Because
activation is meant to identify unauthorized changes to the licensing or activation functions of the
software, and to otherwise prevent unlicensed use of the software, you have no right to use the
software after the time permitted for activation and you may not bypass or circumvent
activation. If you have not entered a product key during the time permitted for activation, most
features of the software will stop running.
Does the software collect my personal information? If you connect your computer to the Internet,
some features of the software may connect to Microsoft or service provider computer systems to send or
receive information. You may not always receive a separate notice when they connect. If you choose to
use any of these features, you agree to send or receive this information when using that feature. Many of
these features can be switched off or you can choose not to use them.
How does Microsoft use your information? Microsoft uses the information it collects through the
software features to upgrade or fix the software and otherwise improve its products and services. In
certain circumstances, Microsoft also shares it with others. For example, Microsoft shares error reports
with relevant hardware and software vendors, so that they can use the information to improve how their
products run with Microsoft products. You agree that Microsoft may use and disclose the information as
described in Microsoft’s Privacy Statement at
ORACLE LICENSE AND SERVICES AGREEMENT
A. Agreement Definitions
“You” and “your” refers to the individual or entity that has executed this agreement (“agreement”) and ordered Oracle
programs and/or services from Oracle EMEA Limited (“Oracle”) or an authorized distributor. The term “programs” refers to
the software products owned or distributed by Oracle which you have ordered, program documentation, and any program
updates acquired through technical support. The term “services” refers to technical support, education, outsourcing, consulting
or other services which you have ordered.
B. Applicability of Agreement
This agreement is valid for the order to which this agreement accompanies.
C. Rights Granted
Upon Oracle’s acceptance of your order, you have the limited right to use the programs and receive any services you ordered
solely for your internal business operations and subject to the terms of this agreement, including the definitions and rules set
forth in the order and the program documentation. You may allow your agents and contractors to use the programs for this
purpose and you are responsible for their compliance with this agreement in such use. If accepted, Oracle will notify you and
this notice will include a copy of your agreement. Program documentation is either shipped with the programs, or you may
access the documentation online at http://oracle.com/contracts. Services are provided based on Oracle's policies for the
applicable services ordered, which are subject to change, and the specific policies applicable to you, and how to access them,
will be specified on your order. Upon payment for services, you will have a perpetual, non-exclusive, non-assignable, royalty free
license to use for your internal business operations anything developed by Oracle and delivered to you under this agreement;
however, certain deliverables may be subject to additional license terms provided in the ordering document.
The services provided under this agreement may be related to your license to use programs which you acquire under a separate
order. The agreement referenced in that order shall govern your use of such programs. Any services acquired from Oracle are bid
separately from such program licenses, and you may acquire either services or such program licenses without acquiring the other.
D. Ownership and Restrictions
Oracle retains all ownership and intellectual property rights to the programs and anything developed by Oracle and delivered to
you under this agreement resulting from the services. You may make a sufficient number of copies of each program for your
licensed use and one copy of each program media.
You may not:
• remove or modify any program markings or any notice of Oracle’s proprietary rights;
• make the programs or materials resulting from the services available in any manner to any third party for use in the third
party’s business operations (unless such access is expressly permitted for the specific program license or materials from
the services you have acquired);
• cause or permit reverse engineering (unless required by law for interoperability), disassembly or decompilation of the
programs; or
• disclose results of any program benchmark tests without Oracle’s prior written consent.
E. Warranties, Disclaimers and Exclusive Remedies
Oracle warrants that a program licensed to you will operate in all material respects as described in the applicable program
documentation for one year after delivery. You must notify Oracle of any program warranty deficiency within one year after
delivery. Oracle also warrants that services ordered will be provided in a professional manner consistent with industry
standards. You must notify Oracle of any services warranty deficiencies within 90 days from performance of the services
described in the ordering document.
ORACLE DOES NOT GUARANTEE THAT THE PROGRAMS WILL PERFORM ERROR-FREE OR
UNINTERRUPTED OR THAT ORACLE WILL CORRECT ALL PROGRAM ERRORS. TO THE EXTENT
PERMITTED BY LAW, THESE WARRANTIES ARE EXCLUSIVE AND THERE ARE NO OTHER EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS, INCLUDING WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 1 of 11 
FOR ANY BREACH OF THE ABOVE WARRANTIES, YOUR EXCLUSIVE REMEDY, AND ORACLE’S ENTIRE
LIABILITY, SHALL BE: (A) THE CORRECTION OF PROGRAM ERRORS THAT CAUSE BREACH OF THE
WARRANTY, OR IF ORACLE CANNOT SUBSTANTIALLY CORRECT SUCH BREACH IN A
COMMERCIALLY REASONABLE MANNER, YOU MAY END YOUR PROGRAM LICENSE AND RECOVER
THE FEES PAID TO ORACLE FOR THE PROGRAM LICENSE AND ANY UNUSED, PREPAID TECHNICAL
SUPPORT FEES YOU HAVE PAID FOR THE PROGRAM LICENSE; OR (B) THE REPERFORMANCE OF THE
DEFICIENT SERVICES, OR IF ORACLE CANNOT SUBSTANTIALLY CORRECT A BREACH IN A
COMMERCIALLY REASONABLE MANNER, YOU MAY END THE RELEVANT SERVICES AND RECOVER
THE FEES PAID TO ORACLE FOR THE DEFICIENT SERVICES.
F. Trial Programs
You may order trial programs, or Oracle may include additional programs with your order which you may use for trial, nonproduction purposes only. You may not use the trial programs to provide or attend third party training on the content and/or
functionality of the programs. You have 30 days from the delivery date to evaluate these programs. If you decide to use any
of these programs after the 30 day trial period, you must obtain a license for such programs from Oracle or an authorized
distributor. If you decide not to obtain a license for any program after the 30 day trial period, you will cease using and will
delete any such programs from your computer systems. Programs licensed for trial purposes are provided “as is” and Oracle
does not provide technical support or offer any warranties for these programs.
G. Indemnification
If someone makes a claim against either you or Oracle (“Recipient”), that any information, design, specification, instruction,
software, data, or material (“Material”) furnished by either you or Oracle (“Provider”), and used by the Recipient infringes its
intellectual property rights, the Provider will indemnify the Recipient against the claim if the Recipient does the following:
• notifies the Provider promptly in writing, not later than 30 days after the Recipient receives notice of the claim (or sooner if
required by applicable law);
• gives the Provider sole control of the defense and any settlement negotiations; and
• gives the Provider the information, authority, and assistance the Provider needs to defend against or settle the claim.
If the Provider believes or it is determined that any of the Material may have violated someone else’s intellectual property rights, the
Provider may choose to either modify the Material to be non-infringing (while substantially preserving its utility or functionality) or
obtain a license to allow for continued use, or if these alternatives are not commercially reasonable, the Provider may end the license
for, and require return of, the applicable Material and refund any fees the Recipient may have paid for it and any unused, prepaid
technical support fees you have paid for the license. If you are the Provider and such return materially affects Oracle’s ability to
meet its obligations under the relevant order, then Oracle may, at its option and upon 30 days prior written notice, terminate the
order. The Provider will not indemnify the Recipient if the Recipient alters the Material or uses it outside the scope of use identified
in the Provider’s user documentation or if the Recipient uses a version of the Materials which has been superseded, if the
infringement claim could have been avoided by using an unaltered current version of the Material which was provided to the
Recipient. The Provider will not indemnify the Recipient to the extent that an infringement claim is based upon any information,
design, specification, instruction, software, data, or material not furnished by the Provider. Oracle will not indemnify you to the
extent that an infringement claim is based upon the combination of any Material with any products or services not provided by
Oracle. This section provides the parties’ exclusive remedy for any infringement claims or damages.
H. Technical Support
For purposes of the ordering document, technical support consists of Software Updates, Product Support and/or other annual
technical support services you may have ordered. If ordered, annual technical support (including first year and all subsequent
years) is provided under Oracle’s technical support policies in effect at the time the services are provided. The technical
support policies, incorporated in this agreement, are subject to change at Oracle’s discretion; however, Oracle will not
materially reduce the level of services provided for supported programs during the period for which fees for technical support
have been paid. You should review the policies prior to entering into the ordering document for the applicable services. You
may access the current version of the technical support policies at http://oracle.com/contracts.
Technical support is effective upon shipment, or if shipment is not required, upon the effective date of the ordering document.
If your order was placed through the Oracle Store, the effective date is the date your order was accepted by Oracle.
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 2 of 11 
Software Updates or Product Support acquired with your order may be renewed annually and, if you renew the Software
Updates or Product Support for the same number of licenses for the same programs, for the first and second renewal years the
fee for Software Updates or Product Support will not increase by more than 4% over the prior year’s fees. If your order is
fulfilled by a member of Oracle’s partner program, the fee for Software Updates or Product Support for the first renewal year
will be the price quoted to you by your partner; the fee for Software Updates or Product Support for the second renewal year
will not increase by more than 4% over the prior year's fees.
If you decide to purchase technical support for any license within a license set, you are required to purchase technical support
at the same level for all licenses within that license set. You may desupport a subset of licenses in a license set only if you
agree to terminate that subset of licenses. The technical support fees for the remaining licenses will be priced in accordance
with the technical support policies in effect at the time of termination. Oracle’s license set definition is available in the current
technical support policies. If you decide not to purchase technical support, you may not update any unsupported program
licenses with new versions of the program.
Oracle reserves the right to desupport its programs or particular versions of its programs. You will be notified in advance
when Oracle determines that a program is to be desupported. Such desupport notices, which are posted at Oracle’s customer
support web site, MetaLink (or Oracle's then current customer support web site), contain desupport dates, information about
availability of Extended Support and Extended Maintenance Support and information about migration paths for certain
features. The desupport notices are subject to change; Oracle will provide updated desupport notices on MetaLink (or Oracle's
then current customer support web site) as necessary.
I. End of Agreement
If either of us breaches a material term of this agreement and fails to correct the breach within 30 days of written specification
of the breach, the other party may terminate this agreement. If Oracle ends this agreement as specified in the preceding
sentence or under the Indemnification section, you must pay within 30 days all amounts which have accrued prior to the end of
this agreement, as well as all sums remaining unpaid for programs ordered and/or services received under this agreement plus
related taxes and expenses. Except for nonpayment of fees, we each agree to extend the 30 day period for so long as the
breaching party continues reasonable efforts to cure the breach. You agree that if you are in default under this agreement, you
may not use those programs and/or services ordered. You further agree that if you have used an Oracle Finance Division
contract to pay for the fees due under an order and you are in default under that contract, you may not use the programs and/or
services ordered and Oracle may end this agreement. Provisions that survive termination or expiration include those relating to
limitation of liability, infringement indemnity, payment, and others which by their nature are intended to survive.
J. Fees and Taxes
All fees payable to Oracle are due within 30 days from the invoice date. You agree to pay any sales, value-added or other
similar taxes imposed by applicable law that Oracle must pay based on the programs and/or services you ordered, except for
taxes based on Oracle’s income. Also, you will reimburse Oracle for reasonable expenses related to providing the services.
Fees for services listed in an ordering document are exclusive of taxes and expenses. You agree that you have not relied on
the future availability of any programs or updates in entering into the payment obligations in your order.
K. Nondisclosure
By virtue of this agreement, the parties may have access to information that is confidential to one another (“confidential
information”). Confidential information shall be limited to the terms and pricing under this agreement, and all information
clearly identified as confidential.
A party’s confidential information shall not include information that: (a) is or becomes a part of the public domain through no
act or omission of the other party; (b) was in the other party’s lawful possession prior to the disclosure and had not been
obtained by the other party either directly or indirectly from the disclosing party; (c) is lawfully disclosed to the other party by
a third party without restriction on the disclosure; or (d) is independently developed by the other party.
We each agree to hold each other’s confidential information in confidence for a period of three years from the date of
disclosure. Also, we each agree to disclose confidential information only to those employees or agents who are required to
access it in furtherance of this agreement and who are required to protect it against unauthorized disclosure. Nothing shall
prevent either party from disclosing the terms or pricing under this agreement or orders submitted under this agreement in any
legal proceeding arising from or in connection with this agreement.
L. Entire Agreement
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 3 of 11 
You agree that this agreement and the information which is incorporated into this agreement by written reference (including
reference to information contained in a URL or referenced policy), together with the applicable order, are the complete
agreement for the programs and/or services ordered by you, and that this agreement supersedes all prior or contemporaneous
agreements or representations, written or oral, regarding such programs and/or services. If any term of this agreement is found
to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions will remain effective. It is expressly agreed that the terms of this
agreement and any Oracle ordering document shall supersede the terms in any purchase order or other non-Oracle ordering
document and no terms included in any such purchase order or other non-Oracle ordering document shall apply to the
programs and/or services ordered. This agreement and ordering documents may not be modified and the rights and restrictions
may not be altered or waived except in a writing signed or accepted online through the Oracle Store by authorized
representatives of you and of Oracle. Any notice required under this agreement shall be provided to the other party in writing.
M. Limitation of Liability
NEITHER PARTY SHALL BE LIABLE FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY LOSS OF PROFITS, REVENUE, DATA, OR DATA USE. ORACLE’S
MAXIMUM LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR
YOUR ORDER, WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR TORT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE FEES
YOU PAID ORACLE FOR THE DEFICIENT PROGRAM OR SERVICES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AS
SPECIFIED IN YOUR ORDER. IN NO EVENT SHALL ORACLE’S LIABILITY ARISING OUT OF OR
RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT EXCEED THE TOTAL FEES PAID UNDER YOUR ORDER. N. Export
Export laws and regulations of the United States and any other relevant local export laws and regulations apply to the
programs. You agree that such export control laws govern your use of the programs (including technical data) and any
services deliverables provided under this agreement, and you agree to comply with all such export laws and regulations
(including “deemed export” and “deemed re-export” regulations); additional information can be found on Oracle’s Global
Trade Compliance web site which can be accessed at http://oracle.com/contracts. You agree that no data, information,
program and/or materials resulting from services (or direct product thereof) will be exported, directly or indirectly, in violation
of these laws, or will be used for any purpose prohibited by these laws including, without limitation, nuclear, chemical, or
biological weapons proliferation, or development of missile technology.
O. Other
This agreement is governed by the substantive and procedural laws of Ireland without reference to its conflictof laws principles
and you and Oracle agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue in, the courts in Ireland in any dispute arising
out of or relating to this agreement.
If you have a dispute with Oracle or if you wish to provide a notice under the Indemnification section of this agreement, or if
you become subject to insolvency or other similar legal proceedings, you will promptly send written notice to: Oracle EMEA
Limited, East Point Business Park, Fairview, Dublin 3, Ireland, Attention: Director of Legal Affairs, Legal Department.
You may not assign this agreement or give or transfer the programs and/or any services or an interest in them to another
individual or entity. If you grant a security interest in the programs and/or any services deliverables, the secured party has no
right to use or transfer the programs and/or any services deliverables, and if you decide to finance your acquisition of the
programs and/or any services, you will follow Oracle’s policies regarding financing which are at http://oracle.com/contracts.
Except for actions for nonpayment or breach of Oracle’s proprietary rights, no action, regardless of form, arising out of or
relating to this agreement may be brought by either party more than two years after the cause of action has accrued.
Upon 45 days written notice, Oracle may audit your use of the programs. You agree to cooperate with Oracle’s audit and
provide reasonable assistance and access to information. You agree to pay within 30 days of written notification any fees
applicable to your use of the programs in excess of your license rights. If you do not pay, Oracle can end your technical
support, licenses and/or this agreement. You agree that Oracle shall not be responsible for any of your costs incurred in
cooperating with the audit.
P. Force Majeure
Neither of us shall be responsible for failure or delay of performance if caused by: an act of war, hostility, or sabotage; act of
God; electrical, internet, or telecommunication outage that is not caused by the obligated party; government restrictions
(including the denial or cancellation of any export or other license); other event outside the reasonable control of the obligated
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 4 of 11 
party. We both will use reasonable efforts to mitigate the effect of a force majeure event. If such event continues for more
than 90 days, either of us may cancel unperformed services upon written notice. This section does not excuse either party’s
obligation to take reasonable steps to follow its normal disaster recovery procedures or your obligation to pay for services
provided.
Q. License Definitions and Rules
To fully understand your license grant, you need to review the definition for the licensing metric and term designation as well
as the licensing rules which are listed below.
Adapter: is defined as each software code interface, installed on each Oracle Internet Application Server Enterprise Edition,
which facilitates communication of information between each version of a third party software application or system and
Oracle programs.
$M Annual Transaction Volume: is defined as one million U.S. dollars (Seven hundred and seventy-two thousand four
hundred euros) in all purchase orders transacted and all auctions conducted through the Oracle Exchange Marketplace by you
and others during the applicable year of the Oracle Exchange Marketplace license, regardless of whether any such auction
results in a purchase order, provided that an auction resulting in a purchase order shall only be counted against the Annual
Transaction Volume once.
Applications National Language Support (NLS) Supplement CD Packs: Please be advised that only a subset of the
products included on an Applications NLS Supplement CD Pack have been translated. For existing supported customers,
MetaLink has information on which products have been translated for the supported languages (http://metalink.oracle.com).
For new or unsupported customers, please contact your Oracle Account Manager for this information.
Application User, Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) User, Field Sales User, Financials User, Inventory/Shipping
User, Marketing User, Manufacturing User, Purchasing User, TeleSales User: is defined as an individual authorized by
you to use the applicable licensed application programs which are installed on a single server or on multiple servers regardless
of whether the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. If you license the Self Service Work Request
option in conjunction with EAM, you are required to maintain licenses for the equivalent number of EAM Users licensed and
you are granted unlimited access to initiate work requests, view work request status and view scheduled completion dates for
your entire employee population.
Application Read-Only User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to run only queries or reports against the
application program for which you have also acquired non read-only licenses.
Case Report Form (CRF) Page: is defined as the "electronic equivalent" of what would be the total number of physical paper
pages initiated remotely by the program (measured explicitly in the program as Received Data Collection Instruments) during a
12 month period. You may not exceed the licensed number of CRF Pages during any 12 month period unless you acquire
additional CRF Page licenses from Oracle.
Collaboration Program User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the programs which are installed on a
single server or on multiple servers regardless of whether the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. For
the purposes of counting and licensing the number of Web Conferencing users, a Collaboration Program User within your
company is defined as a user able to initiate, or host, a web conference and also participate in a web conference; all
participants in the web conference external to your company and attending a web conference are not required to be licensed.
Compensated Individual: is defined as an individual whose compensation or compensation calculations are generated by the
programs. The term Compensated Individual includes, but is not limited to, your employees, contractors, retirees, and any
other Person.
Computer: is defined as the computer on which the programs are installed. A Computer license allows you to use the
licensed program on a single specified computer.
$M Cost of Goods Sold: is defined as one million U.S. dollars (Seven hundred and seventy-two thousand four hundred
euros) in the total cost of inventory that a company has sold during their fiscal year. If Cost of Goods Sold is unknown to you
then Cost of Goods Sold shall be equal to 75% of total company revenue.
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 5 of 11 
Electronic Order Line: is defined as the total number of distinct order lines entered electronically into the Oracle Order
Management application from any source (not manually entered by licensed Order Management Users, Professional Users
2003, or Professional Users 2003 - External) during a 12 month period. This includes order lines originating as external
EDI/XML transactions and/or sourced from other Oracle and non-Oracle applications. You may not exceed the licensed
number of order lines during any 12 month period.
Employee: is defined as an active employee of yours. (note: The value of these applications is determined by the size of the
active employee population and not the number of actual users. Therefore, all of your active employees must be included in
your order when licensing these applications.)
Employee User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the application programs which are installed on a single
server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. Your
human resource personnel that require access to the Oracle Self Service Human Resources program may not be licensed as
Employee Users, but must be licensed as Professional Users. Additionally, your technical support personnel that require
access to the Oracle iSupport program may not be licensed as Employee Users, but must be licensed as Professional Users.
Expense Report: is defined as the total number of expense reports processed by Internet Expenses during a 12 month period.
You may not exceed the licensed number of expense reports during any 12 month period.
Field Technician: is defined as an engineer, technician, representative, or other person who is dispatched by you, including
the dispatchers, to the field using the programs.
Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Student: is defined as any full-time student enrolled in your institution and any part-time
student enrolled in your institution counts as 25% of an FTE Student. The definition of "full-time" and "part-time" is based on
your policies for student classification. If the number of FTE Students is a fraction, that number will be rounded to the nearest
whole number for purposes of license quantity requirements.
Hosted Named User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to access the hosted service, regardless of whether the
individual is actively accessing the hosted service at any given time.
iLearning Subscription: is defined as a web based learning environment that is made available to you subject to the terms of
this agreement and Oracle's iLearning Subscription Policies. Oracle's iLearning Subscription Policies may be accessed at
http://oracle.com/contracts, and may be updated by Oracle from time to time without notice to you.
Implementation Services, Packaged Methods, Architecture Services, Accelerator Services, Assessment Services and
Workshops
Each Implementation Service, Packaged Method, Architecture Service, Accelerator Service, Assessment Service and
Workshop is provided subject to the statement of obligation for that particular offering and Oracle’s consulting services
policies. Oracle’s consulting services policies may be accessed at http://oracle.com/contracts, and are subject to change.
1K Invoice Line: is defined as one thousand invoice line items processed by the program during a 12 month period. You
may not exceed the licensed number of Invoice Lines during any 12 month period unless you acquire additional Invoice Line
licenses from Oracle.
Learning Credits: may be used to acquire education products and services offered in the Oracle University online catalogue
posted at www.oracle.com/education under the terms specified therein. Learning credits may only be used to acquire products
and services at the list price in effect at the time you order the relevant product or service, and may not be used for any product
or service that is subject to a discount or a promotion when you order the relevant product or service. The list price will be
reduced by applying the discount specified above. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the previous three sentences,
learning credits may also be used to pay taxes, materials and/or expenses related to your order; however, the discount specified
above will not be applied to such taxes, materials and/or expenses. Learning credits are valid for a period of 12 months from
the date your order is accepted by Oracle, and you must acquire products and must use any acquired services prior to the end
of such period. You may only use learning credits in the country in which you acquired them, may not use them as a payment
method for additional learning credits, and may not use different learning credits accounts to acquire a single product or
service or to pay related taxes, materials and/or expenses. Learning credits are non-transferable and non-assignable. You may
be required to execute standard Oracle ordering materials when using learning credits to order products or services.
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 6 of 11 
$M in Managed Assets: is defined as one million U.S. dollars (Seven hundred and seventy-two thousand four hundred
euros)of the following total: (1) Book value of investment in capital leases, direct financing leases and other finance leases,
including residuals, whether owned or managed for others, active on the program, plus (2) Book value of assets on operating
leases, whether owned or managed for others, active on the program, plus (3) Book value of loans, notes, conditional sales
contracts and other receivables, owned or managed for others, active on the program, plus (4) Book value of non earning
assets, owned or managed for others, which were previously leased and active on the program, including assets from term
terminated leases and repossessed assets, plus (5) Original cost of assets underlying leases and loans, originated and active on
the program, then sold within the previous 12 months.
Membership: is defined as an individual authorized by you to access the hosted service, regardless of whether the individual
is accessing the hosted service at any given time.
Module: is defined as each production database running the programs.
Named User Plus: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the programs which are installed on a single server or
multiple servers, regardless of whether the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. A non human operated
device will be counted as a named user plus in addition to all individuals authorized to use the programs, if such devices can
access the programs. If multiplexing hardware or software (e.g., a TP monitor or a web server product) is used, this number
must be measured at the multiplexing front end. Automated batching of data from computer to computer is permitted. You
are responsible for ensuring that the named user plus per processor minimums are maintained for the programs contained in the
user minimum table in the licensing rules section; the minimums table provides for the minimum number of named users plus
required and all actual users must be licensed.
Non Employee User - External: is defined as an individual, who is not your employee, contractor or outsourcer, authorized
by you to use the application programs which are installed on a single server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not
the individual is actively using the programs at any given time.
Oracle Finance Division Contract: is a contract between you and Oracle (or one of Oracle’s affiliates) that provides for
payments over time of some or all of the sums due under your order.
Oracle University Online Service: the Oracle University Online Service is a web based learning environment comprised of
both individual Oracle University Online Courses (“Online Courses”) as well as such courses bundled together as the Oracle
University Online Library (“Online Library”). A Premium Online Library may be available in certain foreign languages. The
Oracle University Online service is made available to you subject to the terms of this agreement and Oracle University's
Online Hosting Access Policies. Oracle University's Online Hosting Access Policies are located at
www.oracle.com/education/oln/index.html, and may be updated by Oracle from time to time without notice to you. You
acknowledge that you will create and activate an administrator account and password and that the Oracle University Online
Service is available on http://www.oracle.com/education/oln. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the agreement,
Oracle does not warrant that the Oracle University Online service will be provided uninterrupted or error-free.
If you acquire the Online Library, the term shall be one year from the effective date of your order. At the end of the term, you
may renew your order for an additional one year term at the then current Online Library rate by contacting your local Oracle
Education Sales Office. If you choose not to renew the membership, all rights to use the Online Library shall cease.
You may acquire under a separate order the Premium Online Library or an individual Online Course for a term of 6 months
from the effective date of your order. At the end of the term, you may renew your order for an additional 6 month term at the
then current Premium Online Library or individual Online Course rate by contacting your local Oracle Education Sales Office.
If you choose not to renew the membership, all rights to use the Premium Online Library or the Online Course shall cease.
Order Line: is defined as the total number of order entry line items processed by the program during a 12 month period.
Multiple order entry line items may be entered as part of an individual customer order or quote and may also be automatically
generated by the Oracle Configurator. You may not exceed the licensed number of Order Lines during any 12 month period
unless you acquire additional Order Line licenses from Oracle.
Order Management User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the applicable licensed application programs
which are installed on a single server or on multiple servers regardless of whether the individual is actively using the programs
at any given time. Order Management Users are allowed to manually enter orders directly into the programs but any orders
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 7 of 11 
entered electronically from other sources must be licensed separately.
Orders: is defined as the total number of distinct orders for all programs that are a part of Electronic Orders, entered
electronically (not manually entered by licensed professional users) through EDI, XML or other electronic means including
purchase orders transmitted from Oracle Purchasing, during a 12 month period. You may not exceed the licensed number of
orders during any 12 month period.
Partner Organization: is defined as an external third party business entity that provides value-added services in marketing
and selling your products. Depending upon the type of industry, partner organizations play different roles and are recognized
by different names such as reseller, distributor, agent, dealer or broker.
Person: is defined as your employee or contractor who is actively working on behalf of your organization or a former
employee who has one or more benefit plans managed by the system or continues to be paid through the system. For Time and
Labor, a person is defined as an employee or contractor whose time or labor (piece work) or absences are managed by the
application. For Project Resource Management, a person is defined as an individual who is scheduled on a project. For
Internet Time, a person is defined as an individual who is charging time to a project via the application. The total number of
licenses needed is to be based on the peak number of part-time and full-time people whose records are recorded in the system.
Ported Number: is defined as the telephone number that end users retain as they change from one service provider to
another. This telephone number originally resides on a telephone switch and is moved into the responsibility of another
telephone switch.
Processor: shall be defined as all processors where the Oracle programs are installed and/or running. Programs licensed on a
Processor basis may be accessed by your internal users (including agents and contractors) and by third party users. For the
purposes of counting the number of processors which require licensing, a multicore chip with "n" processor cores shall be
counted as "n" processors. For the Healthcare Transaction Base program, only the processors on which Internet Application
Server Enterprise Edition and this program are installed and/or running are counted for the purpose of determining the number
of licenses required. For the iSupport, iStore and Configurator programs, only the processors on which Internet Application
Server (Standard Edition and/or Enterprise Edition) and the licensed program are running are counted for the purpose of
determining the number of licenses required for the licensed program; under these licenses you may also install and/or run the
licensed program on the processors where a licensed Oracle Database (Standard Edition and/or Enterprise Edition) is installed
and/or running. With respect to the Customer Data Hub program, in determining the number of licenses required, only
processors on which both Oracle Database Enterprise Edition and the Customer Data Hub program are running in production
shall be counted.
Professional User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the application programs which are installed on a
single server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not the individual is actively using the programs at any given time.
For the purposes of Order Management, Advanced Pricing and Purchasing, Professional Users are allowed to manually enter
orders directly into these programs but any orders transmitted or executed electronically (via EDI, XML or other electronic
means including purchase orders transmitted from Oracle Purchasing) must be licensed separately.
Professional User – External : is defined as an individual, who is not your employee, contractor or outsourcer, authorized by
you to use the application programs which are installed on a single server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not the
individual is actively using the programs at any given time. For the purposes of Order Management, Advanced Pricing and
Purchasing, Professional Users – External are allowed to manually enter orders directly into these programs but any orders
transmitted or executed electronically (via EDI, XML or other electronic means including purchase orders transmitted from
Oracle Purchasing) must be licensed separately.
Professional User 2003: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the application programs which are installed on
a single server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not the individual is actively using the programs at any given time.
Professional Users 2003 are allowed to manually enter orders directly into the programs but any orders entered electronically
into Order Management from other sources must be licensed separately.
Professional User 2003 – External: is defined as an individual, who is not your employee, contractor or outsourcer,
authorized by you to use the application programs which are installed on a single server or multiple servers, regardless of
whether or not the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. Professional Users 2003 – External are allowed
to manually enter orders directly into the programs but any orders entered electronically into Order Management from other
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 8 of 11 
sources must be licensed separately.
Program Documentation: is defined as the program user manual and program installation manuals.
Purchase Line: is defined as the total number of purchase line items processed by the application during a 12 month period.
Multiple purchase lines may be created on either a requisition or purchase order or may be automatically generated by other
Oracle Application programs. For iProcurement, Purchase Lines are counted as all line items on an approved requisition
created in iProcurement. For Purchasing Intelligence, Purchase Lines are counted as the line items on purchase orders
processed through this application. This does not include communication on the same purchase order. For each application,
you may not exceed the licensed number of Purchase Lines during any 12 month period unless you acquire additional
Purchase Line licenses from us. You may acquire a different number of Purchase Line licenses for each program (the number
of Purchase Lines for iProcurement could be a smaller number than for Purchasing Intelligence).
$M in Revenue: is defined as one million U.S. dollars (Seven hundred and seventy-two thousand four hundred euros) in all
income (interest income and non interest income) before adjustments for expenses and taxes generated by you during a fiscal
year.
RosettaNet Partner Interface Processes® (PIPs®): are defined as business processes between trading partners.
Preconfigured system-to-system XML-based dialogs for the relevant E-Business Suite Application(s) are provided. Each
preconfigured PIP includes a business document with the vocabulary and a business process with the choreography of the
message dialog.
Service Order Line: is defined as the total number of service order entry line items processed by the program during a 12
month period. Multiple service order entry line items may be entered as part of an individual customer service order or quote.
You may not exceed the licensed number of Service Order Lines during any 12 month period unless you acquire additional
Service Order Line licenses from Oracle.
Subscriber: is defined as (a) a working telephone number for all wireline devices; (b) a portable handset or paging device that
has been activated by you for wireless communications and paging; (c) a residential drop or a nonresidential device serviced
by a cable provider; or (d) a live connected utility meter. The total number of Subscribers is equal to the aggregate of all types
of Subscribers. If your business is not defined in the primary definition of Subscriber above, Subscriber is defined as each
U.S. $1,000 (Seven hundred and seventy-two euros) increment of your gross annual revenue as reported to the SEC in your
annual report or the equivalent accounting or reporting document.
Suite: is defined as all the functional software components described in the product documentation.
System: shall be defined as each distinct production database. Test, development, failover and standby databases are not
required to be licensed as systems; however, you may run the program on these databases.
Technical Reference Manuals
Technical Reference Manuals (“TRMs”) are Oracle’s confidential information. You shall use the TRMs solely for your
internal data processing operations for purposes of: (a) implementing applications programs, (b) interfacing other software
and hardware systems to the applications programs and (c) building extensions to applications programs. You shall not
disclose, use or permit the disclosure or use by others of the TRMs for any other purpose. You shall not use the TRMs to
create software that performs the same or similar functions as any of Oracle products. You agree: (a) to exercise either at least
the same degree of care to safeguard the confidentiality of the TRMs as you exercise to safeguard the confidentiality of your
own most important confidential information or a reasonable degree of care, whichever is greater; (b) to maintain agreements
with your employees and agents that protect the confidentiality and proprietary rights of the confidential information of third
parties such as Oracle and instruct your employees and agents of these requirements for the TRMs; (c) restrict disclosure of the
TRMs to those of your employees and agents who have a "need to know" consistent with the purposes for which such TRMs
were disclosed; (d) maintain the TRMs at all times on your premises; and (e) not to remove or destroy any proprietary or
confidential legends or markings placed upon the TRMs. Oracle shall retain all title, copyright and other proprietary rights in
the TRMs. TRMs are provided to you "as-is" without any warranty of any kind. Upon termination, you shall cease using, and
shall return or destroy, all copies of the applicable TRMs.
Trainee: is defined as an employee, contractor, student or other person who is being recorded by the program.
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 9 of 11 
Workstation: is defined as the client computer from which the programs are being accessed, regardless of where the program
is installed.
Term Designation
If your program license does not specify a term, the program license is perpetual and shall continue unless terminated as
otherwise provided in the agreement.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Year Terms: A program license specifying a 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Year Term shall commence on the effective date of
the order and shall continue for the specified period. At the end of the specified period the program license shall terminate.
1 Year Hosting Term: A program license specifying a 1 Year Hosting Term shall commence on the effective date of the
order and shall continue for a period of 1 year. At the end of the 1 year the program license shall terminate. A program license
specifying a 1 Year Hosting Term may only be used for providing internet hosting services.
1 Year Oracle Hosted Term: A program license specifying a 1 Year Oracle Hosted Term shall commence on the effective
date of the order and shall continue for a period of 1 year. At the end of the 1 year the program license shall terminate. A
program license specifying a 1 Year Oracle Hosted Term must be hosted by Oracle.com via Computer and Administration
services.
1 Year Subscription: A program license specifying a 1 Year Subscription shall commence on the effec
N. Export
Export laws and regulations of the United States and any other relevant local export laws and regulations apply to the
programs. You agree that such export control laws govern your use of the programs (including technical data) and any
services deliverables provided under this agreement, and you agree to comply with all such export laws and regulations
(including “deemed export” and “deemed re-export” regulations); additional information can be found on Oracle’s Global
Trade Compliance web site which can be accessed at http://oracle.com/contracts. You agree that no data, information,
program and/or materials resulting from services (or direct product thereof) will be exported, directly or indirectly, in violation
of these laws, or will be used for any purpose prohibited by these laws including, without limitation, nuclear, chemical, or
biological weapons proliferation, or development of missile technology.
O. Other
This agreement is governed by the substantive and procedural laws of Ireland without reference to its conflictof laws principles
and you and Oracle agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue in, the courts in Ireland in any dispute arising
out of or relating to this agreement.
If you have a dispute with Oracle or if you wish to provide a notice under the Indemnification section of this agreement, or if
you become subject to insolvency or other similar legal proceedings, you will promptly send written notice to: Oracle EMEA
Limited, East Point Business Park, Fairview, Dublin 3, Ireland, Attention: Director of Legal Affairs, Legal Department.
You may not assign this agreement or give or transfer the programs and/or any services or an interest in them to another
individual or entity. If you grant a security interest in the programs and/or any services deliverables, the secured party has no
right to use or transfer the programs and/or any services deliverables, and if you decide to finance your acquisition of the
programs and/or any services, you will follow Oracle’s policies regarding financing which are at http://oracle.com/contracts.
Except for actions for nonpayment or breach of Oracle’s proprietary rights, no action, regardless of form, arising out of or
relating to this agreement may be brought by either party more than two years after the cause of action has accrued.
Upon 45 days written notice, Oracle may audit your use of the programs. You agree to cooperate with Oracle’s audit and
provide reasonable assistance and access to information. You agree to pay within 30 days of written notification any fees
applicable to your use of the programs in excess of your license rights. If you do not pay, Oracle can end your technical
support, licenses and/or this agreement. You agree that Oracle shall not be responsible for any of your costs incurred in
cooperating with the audit.
P. Force Majeure
Neither of us shall be responsible for failure or delay of performance if caused by: an act of war, hostility, or sabotage; act of
God; electrical, internet, or telecommunication outage that is not caused by the obligated party; government restrictions
(including the denial or cancellation of any export or other license); other event outside the reasonable control of the obligated
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 4 of 11 
party. We both will use reasonable efforts to mitigate the effect of a force majeure event. If such event continues for more
than 90 days, either of us may cancel unperformed services upon written notice. This section does not excuse either party’s
obligation to take reasonable steps to follow its normal disaster recovery procedures or your obligation to pay for services
provided.
Q. License Definitions and Rules
To fully understand your license grant, you need to review the definition for the licensing metric and term designation as well
as the licensing rules which are listed below.
Adapter: is defined as each software code interface, installed on each Oracle Internet Application Server Enterprise Edition,
which facilitates communication of information between each version of a third party software application or system and
Oracle programs.
$M Annual Transaction Volume: is defined as one million U.S. dollars (Seven hundred and seventy-two thousand four
hundred euros) in all purchase orders transacted and all auctions conducted through the Oracle Exchange Marketplace by you
and others during the applicable year of the Oracle Exchange Marketplace license, regardless of whether any such auction
results in a purchase order, provided that an auction resulting in a purchase order shall only be counted against the Annual
Transaction Volume once.
Applications National Language Support (NLS) Supplement CD Packs: Please be advised that only a subset of the
products included on an Applications NLS Supplement CD Pack have been translated. For existing supported customers,
MetaLink has information on which products have been translated for the supported languages (http://metalink.oracle.com).
For new or unsupported customers, please contact your Oracle Account Manager for this information.
Application User, Enterprise Asset Management (EAM) User, Field Sales User, Financials User, Inventory/Shipping
User, Marketing User, Manufacturing User, Purchasing User, TeleSales User: is defined as an individual authorized by
you to use the applicable licensed application programs which are installed on a single server or on multiple servers regardless
of whether the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. If you license the Self Service Work Request
option in conjunction with EAM, you are required to maintain licenses for the equivalent number of EAM Users licensed and
you are granted unlimited access to initiate work requests, view work request status and view scheduled completion dates for
your entire employee population.
Application Read-Only User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to run only queries or reports against the
application program for which you have also acquired non read-only licenses.
Case Report Form (CRF) Page: is defined as the "electronic equivalent" of what would be the total number of physical paper
pages initiated remotely by the program (measured explicitly in the program as Received Data Collection Instruments) during a
12 month period. You may not exceed the licensed number of CRF Pages during any 12 month period unless you acquire
additional CRF Page licenses from Oracle.
Collaboration Program User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the programs which are installed on a
single server or on multiple servers regardless of whether the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. For
the purposes of counting and licensing the number of Web Conferencing users, a Collaboration Program User within your
company is defined as a user able to initiate, or host, a web conference and also participate in a web conference; all
participants in the web conference external to your company and attending a web conference are not required to be licensed.
Compensated Individual: is defined as an individual whose compensation or compensation calculations are generated by the
programs. The term Compensated Individual includes, but is not limited to, your employees, contractors, retirees, and any
other Person.
Computer: is defined as the computer on which the programs are installed. A Computer license allows you to use the
licensed program on a single specified computer.
$M Cost of Goods Sold: is defined as one million U.S. dollars (Seven hundred and seventy-two thousand four hundred
euros) in the total cost of inventory that a company has sold during their fiscal year. If Cost of Goods Sold is unknown to you
then Cost of Goods Sold shall be equal to 75% of total company revenue.
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 5 of 11 
Electronic Order Line: is defined as the total number of distinct order lines entered electronically into the Oracle Order
Management application from any source (not manually entered by licensed Order Management Users, Professional Users
2003, or Professional Users 2003 - External) during a 12 month period. This includes order lines originating as external
EDI/XML transactions and/or sourced from other Oracle and non-Oracle applications. You may not exceed the licensed
number of order lines during any 12 month period.
Employee: is defined as an active employee of yours. (note: The value of these applications is determined by the size of the
active employee population and not the number of actual users. Therefore, all of your active employees must be included in
your order when licensing these applications.)
Employee User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the application programs which are installed on a single
server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. Your
human resource personnel that require access to the Oracle Self Service Human Resources program may not be licensed as
Employee Users, but must be licensed as Professional Users. Additionally, your technical support personnel that require
access to the Oracle iSupport program may not be licensed as Employee Users, but must be licensed as Professional Users.
Expense Report: is defined as the total number of expense reports processed by Internet Expenses during a 12 month period.
You may not exceed the licensed number of expense reports during any 12 month period.
Field Technician: is defined as an engineer, technician, representative, or other person who is dispatched by you, including
the dispatchers, to the field using the programs.
Full Time Equivalent (FTE) Student: is defined as any full-time student enrolled in your institution and any part-time
student enrolled in your institution counts as 25% of an FTE Student. The definition of "full-time" and "part-time" is based on
your policies for student classification. If the number of FTE Students is a fraction, that number will be rounded to the nearest
whole number for purposes of license quantity requirements.
Hosted Named User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to access the hosted service, regardless of whether the
individual is actively accessing the hosted service at any given time.
iLearning Subscription: is defined as a web based learning environment that is made available to you subject to the terms of
this agreement and Oracle's iLearning Subscription Policies. Oracle's iLearning Subscription Policies may be accessed at
http://oracle.com/contracts, and may be updated by Oracle from time to time without notice to you.
Implementation Services, Packaged Methods, Architecture Services, Accelerator Services, Assessment Services and
Workshops
Each Implementation Service, Packaged Method, Architecture Service, Accelerator Service, Assessment Service and
Workshop is provided subject to the statement of obligation for that particular offering and Oracle’s consulting services
policies. Oracle’s consulting services policies may be accessed at http://oracle.com/contracts, and are subject to change.
1K Invoice Line: is defined as one thousand invoice line items processed by the program during a 12 month period. You
may not exceed the licensed number of Invoice Lines during any 12 month period unless you acquire additional Invoice Line
licenses from Oracle.
Learning Credits: may be used to acquire education products and services offered in the Oracle University online catalogue
posted at www.oracle.com/education under the terms specified therein. Learning credits may only be used to acquire products
and services at the list price in effect at the time you order the relevant product or service, and may not be used for any product
or service that is subject to a discount or a promotion when you order the relevant product or service. The list price will be
reduced by applying the discount specified above. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the previous three sentences,
learning credits may also be used to pay taxes, materials and/or expenses related to your order; however, the discount specified
above will not be applied to such taxes, materials and/or expenses. Learning credits are valid for a period of 12 months from
the date your order is accepted by Oracle, and you must acquire products and must use any acquired services prior to the end
of such period. You may only use learning credits in the country in which you acquired them, may not use them as a payment
method for additional learning credits, and may not use different learning credits accounts to acquire a single product or
service or to pay related taxes, materials and/or expenses. Learning credits are non-transferable and non-assignable. You may
be required to execute standard Oracle ordering materials when using learning credits to order products or services.
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 6 of 11 
$M in Managed Assets: is defined as one million U.S. dollars (Seven hundred and seventy-two thousand four hundred
euros)of the following total: (1) Book value of investment in capital leases, direct financing leases and other finance leases,
including residuals, whether owned or managed for others, active on the program, plus (2) Book value of assets on operating
leases, whether owned or managed for others, active on the program, plus (3) Book value of loans, notes, conditional sales
contracts and other receivables, owned or managed for others, active on the program, plus (4) Book value of non earning
assets, owned or managed for others, which were previously leased and active on the program, including assets from term
terminated leases and repossessed assets, plus (5) Original cost of assets underlying leases and loans, originated and active on
the program, then sold within the previous 12 months.
Membership: is defined as an individual authorized by you to access the hosted service, regardless of whether the individual
is accessing the hosted service at any given time.
Module: is defined as each production database running the programs.
Named User Plus: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the programs which are installed on a single server or
multiple servers, regardless of whether the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. A non human operated
device will be counted as a named user plus in addition to all individuals authorized to use the programs, if such devices can
access the programs. If multiplexing hardware or software (e.g., a TP monitor or a web server product) is used, this number
must be measured at the multiplexing front end. Automated batching of data from computer to computer is permitted. You
are responsible for ensuring that the named user plus per processor minimums are maintained for the programs contained in the
user minimum table in the licensing rules section; the minimums table provides for the minimum number of named users plus
required and all actual users must be licensed.
Non Employee User - External: is defined as an individual, who is not your employee, contractor or outsourcer, authorized
by you to use the application programs which are installed on a single server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not
the individual is actively using the programs at any given time.
Oracle Finance Division Contract: is a contract between you and Oracle (or one of Oracle’s affiliates) that provides for
payments over time of some or all of the sums due under your order.
Oracle University Online Service: the Oracle University Online Service is a web based learning environment comprised of
both individual Oracle University Online Courses (“Online Courses”) as well as such courses bundled together as the Oracle
University Online Library (“Online Library”). A Premium Online Library may be available in certain foreign languages. The
Oracle University Online service is made available to you subject to the terms of this agreement and Oracle University's
Online Hosting Access Policies. Oracle University's Online Hosting Access Policies are located at
www.oracle.com/education/oln/index.html, and may be updated by Oracle from time to time without notice to you. You
acknowledge that you will create and activate an administrator account and password and that the Oracle University Online
Service is available on http://www.oracle.com/education/oln. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the agreement,
Oracle does not warrant that the Oracle University Online service will be provided uninterrupted or error-free.
If you acquire the Online Library, the term shall be one year from the effective date of your order. At the end of the term, you
may renew your order for an additional one year term at the then current Online Library rate by contacting your local Oracle
Education Sales Office. If you choose not to renew the membership, all rights to use the Online Library shall cease.
You may acquire under a separate order the Premium Online Library or an individual Online Course for a term of 6 months
from the effective date of your order. At the end of the term, you may renew your order for an additional 6 month term at the
then current Premium Online Library or individual Online Course rate by contacting your local Oracle Education Sales Office.
If you choose not to renew the membership, all rights to use the Premium Online Library or the Online Course shall cease.
Order Line: is defined as the total number of order entry line items processed by the program during a 12 month period.
Multiple order entry line items may be entered as part of an individual customer order or quote and may also be automatically
generated by the Oracle Configurator. You may not exceed the licensed number of Order Lines during any 12 month period
unless you acquire additional Order Line licenses from Oracle.
Order Management User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the applicable licensed application programs
which are installed on a single server or on multiple servers regardless of whether the individual is actively using the programs
at any given time. Order Management Users are allowed to manually enter orders directly into the programs but any orders
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 7 of 11 
entered electronically from other sources must be licensed separately.
Orders: is defined as the total number of distinct orders for all programs that are a part of Electronic Orders, entered
electronically (not manually entered by licensed professional users) through EDI, XML or other electronic means including
purchase orders transmitted from Oracle Purchasing, during a 12 month period. You may not exceed the licensed number of
orders during any 12 month period.
Partner Organization: is defined as an external third party business entity that provides value-added services in marketing
and selling your products. Depending upon the type of industry, partner organizations play different roles and are recognized
by different names such as reseller, distributor, agent, dealer or broker.
Person: is defined as your employee or contractor who is actively working on behalf of your organization or a former
employee who has one or more benefit plans managed by the system or continues to be paid through the system. For Time and
Labor, a person is defined as an employee or contractor whose time or labor (piece work) or absences are managed by the
application. For Project Resource Management, a person is defined as an individual who is scheduled on a project. For
Internet Time, a person is defined as an individual who is charging time to a project via the application. The total number of
licenses needed is to be based on the peak number of part-time and full-time people whose records are recorded in the system.
Ported Number: is defined as the telephone number that end users retain as they change from one service provider to
another. This telephone number originally resides on a telephone switch and is moved into the responsibility of another
telephone switch.
Processor: shall be defined as all processors where the Oracle programs are installed and/or running. Programs licensed on a
Processor basis may be accessed by your internal users (including agents and contractors) and by third party users. For the
purposes of counting the number of processors which require licensing, a multicore chip with "n" processor cores shall be
counted as "n" processors. For the Healthcare Transaction Base program, only the processors on which Internet Application
Server Enterprise Edition and this program are installed and/or running are counted for the purpose of determining the number
of licenses required. For the iSupport, iStore and Configurator programs, only the processors on which Internet Application
Server (Standard Edition and/or Enterprise Edition) and the licensed program are running are counted for the purpose of
determining the number of licenses required for the licensed program; under these licenses you may also install and/or run the
licensed program on the processors where a licensed Oracle Database (Standard Edition and/or Enterprise Edition) is installed
and/or running. With respect to the Customer Data Hub program, in determining the number of licenses required, only
processors on which both Oracle Database Enterprise Edition and the Customer Data Hub program are running in production
shall be counted.
Professional User: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the application programs which are installed on a
single server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not the individual is actively using the programs at any given time.
For the purposes of Order Management, Advanced Pricing and Purchasing, Professional Users are allowed to manually enter
orders directly into these programs but any orders transmitted or executed electronically (via EDI, XML or other electronic
means including purchase orders transmitted from Oracle Purchasing) must be licensed separately.
Professional User – External : is defined as an individual, who is not your employee, contractor or outsourcer, authorized by
you to use the application programs which are installed on a single server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not the
individual is actively using the programs at any given time. For the purposes of Order Management, Advanced Pricing and
Purchasing, Professional Users – External are allowed to manually enter orders directly into these programs but any orders
transmitted or executed electronically (via EDI, XML or other electronic means including purchase orders transmitted from
Oracle Purchasing) must be licensed separately.
Professional User 2003: is defined as an individual authorized by you to use the application programs which are installed on
a single server or multiple servers, regardless of whether or not the individual is actively using the programs at any given time.
Professional Users 2003 are allowed to manually enter orders directly into the programs but any orders entered electronically
into Order Management from other sources must be licensed separately.
Professional User 2003 – External: is defined as an individual, who is not your employee, contractor or outsourcer,
authorized by you to use the application programs which are installed on a single server or multiple servers, regardless of
whether or not the individual is actively using the programs at any given time. Professional Users 2003 – External are allowed
to manually enter orders directly into the programs but any orders entered electronically into Order Management from other
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 8 of 11 
sources must be licensed separately.
Program Documentation: is defined as the program user manual and program installation manuals.
Purchase Line: is defined as the total number of purchase line items processed by the application during a 12 month period.
Multiple purchase lines may be created on either a requisition or purchase order or may be automatically generated by other
Oracle Application programs. For iProcurement, Purchase Lines are counted as all line items on an approved requisition
created in iProcurement. For Purchasing Intelligence, Purchase Lines are counted as the line items on purchase orders
processed through this application. This does not include communication on the same purchase order. For each application,
you may not exceed the licensed number of Purchase Lines during any 12 month period unless you acquire additional
Purchase Line licenses from us. You may acquire a different number of Purchase Line licenses for each program (the number
of Purchase Lines for iProcurement could be a smaller number than for Purchasing Intelligence).
$M in Revenue: is defined as one million U.S. dollars (Seven hundred and seventy-two thousand four hundred euros) in all
income (interest income and non interest income) before adjustments for expenses and taxes generated by you during a fiscal
year.
RosettaNet Partner Interface Processes® (PIPs®): are defined as business processes between trading partners.
Preconfigured system-to-system XML-based dialogs for the relevant E-Business Suite Application(s) are provided. Each
preconfigured PIP includes a business document with the vocabulary and a business process with the choreography of the
message dialog.
Service Order Line: is defined as the total number of service order entry line items processed by the program during a 12
month period. Multiple service order entry line items may be entered as part of an individual customer service order or quote.
You may not exceed the licensed number of Service Order Lines during any 12 month period unless you acquire additional
Service Order Line licenses from Oracle.
Subscriber: is defined as (a) a working telephone number for all wireline devices; (b) a portable handset or paging device that
has been activated by you for wireless communications and paging; (c) a residential drop or a nonresidential device serviced
by a cable provider; or (d) a live connected utility meter. The total number of Subscribers is equal to the aggregate of all types
of Subscribers. If your business is not defined in the primary definition of Subscriber above, Subscriber is defined as each
U.S. $1,000 (Seven hundred and seventy-two euros) increment of your gross annual revenue as reported to the SEC in your
annual report or the equivalent accounting or reporting document.
Suite: is defined as all the functional software components described in the product documentation.
System: shall be defined as each distinct production database. Test, development, failover and standby databases are not
required to be licensed as systems; however, you may run the program on these databases.
Technical Reference Manuals
Technical Reference Manuals (“TRMs”) are Oracle’s confidential information. You shall use the TRMs solely for your
internal data processing operations for purposes of: (a) implementing applications programs, (b) interfacing other software
and hardware systems to the applications programs and (c) building extensions to applications programs. You shall not
disclose, use or permit the disclosure or use by others of the TRMs for any other purpose. You shall not use the TRMs to
create software that performs the same or similar functions as any of Oracle products. You agree: (a) to exercise either at least
the same degree of care to safeguard the confidentiality of the TRMs as you exercise to safeguard the confidentiality of your
own most important confidential information or a reasonable degree of care, whichever is greater; (b) to maintain agreements
with your employees and agents that protect the confidentiality and proprietary rights of the confidential information of third
parties such as Oracle and instruct your employees and agents of these requirements for the TRMs; (c) restrict disclosure of the
TRMs to those of your employees and agents who have a "need to know" consistent with the purposes for which such TRMs
were disclosed; (d) maintain the TRMs at all times on your premises; and (e) not to remove or destroy any proprietary or
confidential legends or markings placed upon the TRMs. Oracle shall retain all title, copyright and other proprietary rights in
the TRMs. TRMs are provided to you "as-is" without any warranty of any kind. Upon termination, you shall cease using, and
shall return or destroy, all copies of the applicable TRMs.
Trainee: is defined as an employee, contractor, student or other person who is being recorded by the program.
IRE_OLSA_V120103_Def_V122304 Page 9 of 11 
Workstation: is defined as the client computer from which the programs are being accessed, regardless of where the program
is installed.
Term Designation
If your program license does not specify a term, the program license is perpetual and shall continue unless terminated as
otherwise provided in the agreement.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 Year Terms: A program license specifying a 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 Year Term shall commence on the effective date of
the order and shall continue for the specified period. At the end of the specified period the program license shall terminate.
1 Year Hosting Term: A program license specifying a 1 Year Hosting Term shall commence on the effective date of the
order and shall continue for a period of 1 year. At the end of the 1 year the program license shall terminate. A program license
specifying a 1 Year Hosting Term may only be used for providing internet hosting services.
1 Year Oracle Hosted Term: A program license specifying a 1 Year Oracle Hosted Term shall commence on the effective
date of the order and shall continue for a period of 1 year. At the end of the 1 year the program license shall terminate. A
program license specifying a 1 Year Oracle Hosted Term must be hosted by Oracle.com via Computer and Administration
services.
1 Year Subscription: A program license specifying a 1 Year Subscription shall commence on the effec